I am Ho Chi Minh. Born in 1890 in Hoang Tru in
central Vietnam. A Vietnamese nationalist for more
than three decades, fighting first against the
Japanese, then the French colonial power, and then
the US-backed South Vietnamese. I was President
of North Vietnam from 1954 until my death.
When I was born, Vietnam was a French
colony, known as French Indo-China,
but under the nominal rule of an emperor. In 1911,
I took a job on a French ship and traveled widely.
I lived in London and Paris and was a
founding member of the French communist party.
In 1923, I visited Moscow for training at
Comintern, an organization created by Lenin
to promote the worldwide revolution. I traveled
to southern China to organize a revolutionary
movement among Vietnamese exiles, and in 1930
founded the Indo-Chinese Communist Party (ICP).
After the Japanese invasion of Indo-China in
1941, I returned home and founded the Viet Minh,
a communist-dominated independence movement,
to fight the Japanese. I adopted the name
Ho Chi Minh, meaning 'Bringer of Light'.
At the end of World War Two, the Viet Minh
announced Vietnamese independence. The French
refused to relinquish their colony and in 1946,
war broke out. After eight years of war, the
French were forced to agree to peace talks in
Geneva. The country was split into a communist
north and non-communist south and I became
president of North Vietnam. I was determined
to reunite Vietnam under communist rule.
By the early 1960s, North Vietnamese-backed
guerrillas, the Vietcong, were attacking the
South Vietnamese government. Fearing the spread of
communism, the United States provided increasing
levels of support to South Vietnam. By 1965,
large numbers of American troops were arriving,
and the fighting escalated into a major conflict.
I died in 1969. 6 years from my death,
the Vietcong took the South Vietnamese capital,
Saigon, and renamed it Ho Chi Minh City in
my honor. To reap a return in ten years,
plant trees. To reap a return in 100 years,
cultivate the people. I hope Vietnam is still
the blooming and fertile land I dreamed about.